Hello, everyone. I am Cezanne Camacho.
I teach deep learning and computer vision at Udacity.
Today I'm with Kyle Samani,
who is the co-founder and managing partner at Multicoin Capital.
Maybe you could tell us a bit about what multi-coin does.
Hey Cezanne. Thanks so much for having me,
super excited to be on.
So Multicoin Capital is a crypto fund.
We're based in Austin, Texas.
We spend all of our energy focused on the crypto space.
We invest in protocols and in companies going all the way from
two guys or girls with
an idea all the way up through Bitcoin and everything in the middle.
We go use derivative,
we'll go long and short.
We will invest in illiquid early stage projects and buy things on the public markets.
Our investment mandate is to just invest in
the crypto ecosystem and invest in things that are crypto native.
So although we follow the security token space,
we don't like investing like if someone puts Apple stock on a blockchain,
we're not going to invest in that.
But we spend all our time in crypto space and we think it's the coolest thing in
the world and we want to invest in some of
the most awesome protocols and companies building in this technology.
So if you're at a party and someone asks you what is blockchain, what do you say to them?
I only go to parties where everyone already knows what blockchain is.
Only the people who don't the know.
I'm just playing.
A blockchain is a ledger or
a database like any other database with the a couple of interesting differences.
One is that the database is hosted by many people.
So whereas like a typical database is hosted by one company or one person or is hosted
on one computer and controlled by that one person or that one entity,
a blockchain is stored on many computers and
no one person can just go randomly manipulate stuff in the database.
The ledger is append only,
so you can only add new entries to it.
Once you've added something to it you cannot take anything back.
I think in the case of Bitcoin,
there are something like 100,000 computers all over
the world today that are maintaining copy of this letter.
So even if 50,000 of those computers blew up tomorrow,
the ledger is still totally intact.
So it's a very simple definition of a blockchain.
In addition to people asking what is blockchain,
another common big question I get is,
what is the big deal?
Why are so many people and investors interested in blockchain generally?
What are the traits that really are drawing people in?
Yeah. I think in
the last 12 months it's been a little bit of people's eyes have woken up.
It's like the price went up and that caused people to go take a second look.
They pay attention.
The core concepts is really fundamentally unchanged since Bitcoin launched in 2009,
but there's some pretty powerful ideas here.
The first is that you can have self sovereign money.
So if you think about US dollars,
so you've got a green piece of paper you put in your wallet.
It's more or less like your green piece of
paper and absent someone holding a gun to your head.
It's your green piece of paper and no one can take it away from you.
But as soon as you go from green pieces of paper in your wallet to
a digital bank account and you deposit that green piece of paper into an ATM,
well, now you really are no longer sovereign in that like Bank of America just says,
you can't withdraw money anymore,
then you can't withdraw anymore.
If the IRS puts a freeze in your accounts, whatever.
So once you go from physical cash to digital money in all governments,
in all countries around the world today,
you as the person who owns the money,
or it's really no longer your money.
It's now like you have a claim on the money
and Bank of America has the money and theoretically,
you have a claim on it and they will honor your claim,
but they have the money.
Right.
That's a very subtle difference,
but it has pretty profound implications on lots of things.
So you can't transfer money after 5:00 PM,
you can't transfer money on weekends,
bank holidays, exorbitant fees,
people can freeze your accounts.
There's all kinds of weird second and third order effects
of the fact that you actually don't control your money.
So one of the really profound breakthroughs of Bitcoin and really all
cryptocurrencies is that you as a consumer can be self sovereign and have money,
and literally no one in the world can take that away from you,
absent putting a gun to your head.
You can travel across borders.
You can travel anywhere and the system will work and it cannot be taken away from you.
That's a fundamentally unique thing.
As people are opening their eyes to the power of
what that means for empowering consumers,
I think that's very, very profound impact on how the world's going to work.
Yeah, that makes sense to me. When I think of the US dollar
especially it's something that if you're
lucky where it feels like a fairly stable market.
I don't have a lot of distressed in my bank, that kind of thing,
but I could definitely imagine perhaps elsewhere where stability or
even censorship of what you can
do with your money is an issue that this could be something really interesting.
Along those lines, I'm wondering about blockchain.
I see it's use in cryptocurrency and I'm also thinking it's much bigger than that.
I'm wondering where you think it's going to impact the world.
What industry do you see blockchain affecting now and maybe in future?
Yes. I think the single biggest use case for crypto and blockchains are
for what I would call creating a global digital reserve assets.
So you can call it digital gold,
you can call it digital money,
but something that it's a asset that no government can take away from you.
They can't print new money of it and think
that that's a multi-trillion dollar opportunity.
I think it's a huge opportunity.
There's all kinds of other interesting use cases.
So one of my favorites is this idea of digital assets.
So we invested in a protocol six-seven-eight months ago called Tari.
They just came out of stealth mode maybe a month or two ago.
Tari is building a brand new blockchain that
has two really strong features that are built at the core.
One is privacy using this new technology called MimbleWimble, seriously.
MimbleWimble.
MimbleWimble. The second is they're building a super strong focus on digital assets.
So they want people if they're at a venue for a concert it's just tickets.
They want to be able to issue those on the Tari protocol and make it super easy.
If airline, you've got airline miles.
Starbucks you've got loyalty points.
Well, there's all of these different businesses
that you can call them, they have a currency,
they have these either fungible or non fungible assets like tickets to a seat, whatever.
All of these things today are managed in
these disparate proprietary databases and they're not fungible,
they're very hard to work with, they're all clunky.
I think there's a really strong empowering concept of a consumer being able to say,
no, here's my ticket,
I can see my claim.
I'm going to see this [inaudible] concert next Tuesday,
whatever, and that a Ticketmaster has it no.
I have my ticket. I can see that it's my ticket.
If I choose this as my ticket,
I can choose as my ticket,
but it's not sitting on Ticketmaster's database.
That would apply for owning stock in a company.
This would apply for any debt like anything.
So I think this is a really profound concepts.
Today, all of these digital assets are all stored in
different databases but hosted by different companies all over the place,
and there's no way to make sense of it in a unified way.
So I'm really excited about the opportunity for digital assets on blockchains.
Another thing I'm super excited about,
there's a new protocol that launched recently called Auger.
Auger are really, really cool concept,
it is a global prediction market.
So there's a few major categories of predictions.
One would be predicting the price of a stock or some asset at some future point in time,
basically like an option.
You can actually really broaden this to just be any form of derivative contract,
but another really common from a prediction markets would be sports betting.
A third would be bidding on politics.
So your exists right now,.
Auger launched on July ninth,
so just a few weeks ago.
It is a prediction market where anyone can create a market for anything.
The entire thing runs on Ethereum blockchain.
No person in the world can stop the system.
The entire Auger team could disappear
tomorrow off the planet earth and the system will keep running.
These extreme scenarios just to prove on the real business of something like this.
It's pretty remarkable. So anyone,
anywhere in the world can create any market.
Then anyone, anywhere in the world can come and bet on the outcomes of that market.
So like you can submit any like yes-no question or something?
You can submit anything as long as if people want to come bet on it,
if they want to take odds and put bets on it,
then they can take odds and put bets on it.
Having to know, off the top your head,
what the most popular question is on there right now?
So I think at the current moment,
the market with the highest large number of
outstanding interest is the price of Ethereum at the end of the year,
I think it's at $500 at the end of the year,
I think that's the largest market.
So the system is enough for two or three weeks,
I think they've created somewhere in the order of 900 markets.
There's been about $2 million that's been bet through the system.
What so cool is the thing is entirely decentralized and peer-to-peer.
There is no central authority in the system.
If you think about a prediction market,
one of the hard problems is if you don't want a centralize person controlling the system.
Well, after the event is over,
someone needs to flip a switch and say,
"Trump won" or "Hillary won" or the price of
ether was over 500 or less than 500 or whatever.
If you want to be able to support any conceivable logic,
then how do you do this in a decentralized way?
Auger is a very clever solution where there are some fees in the system,
the fees are very low, but there are some fees.
The idea is that once a prediction market is officially over,
people who own rep tokens,
rep tokens are the native token of the Auger network,
those people will be asked and they will say,
"Hey, this market is over.
Please vote and say what happened."
Voting on the truth?
Voting on the truth, just say what happens.
Who won the soccer game, who won the election, whatever.
In exchange for doing that, those people get a percentage of the fees.
You might say, "Well, what's their motivation for telling the truth or lying?"
So the idea is the system is that if you vote against the majority,
let's say you said Hillary won the election.
If you say that, then part of your Auger tokens,
instead of receiving part of those fees,
your Auger tokens will be automatically burned and taken away from you.
So the whole idea is, the whole system is intentionally
circular and that you should vote on
whatever you think everyone else is going to vote for.
The majority's are rules?
Right. But everyone is likely going to vote the truth like,
how are you going to get,
there's something like 100,000 or 200,000
people around the world who own Auger tokens today.
How are you going to all these people to collude and say,
"No, Hillary won the election."
That's not going to happen.
Just maybe wishful thinking.
Wishful thinking perhaps or something.
It's based on this idea of like,
you're never going to be able to get enough people to coordinate to lie about the truth.
So everyone will just honestly report the truth and they are incentivized to do
so because then they will receive some of the fees from the system.
Got it. That makes sense.
You have a question,
there's some odds in a typical betting way
and then people are incentivized to tell the truth at the end.
I wonder though, if there are any scenarios
where the answer is ambiguous, what would happen?
The only thing that's coming to mind right now is celebrity relationships like,
did Brad and Angelina really break up or not?
I guess you'd have to really define
what if Page 6 of the times or something reports is that?
Some truth or something like that,
I wonder if they would ever be a divide like that?
I suspect that market would probably not garner too much betting at this.
It's not yet.
Also the problem especially with markets like that
is Brad and whoever are incentivized to collude.
It's like the boxer throwing a match,
it's just very easy to screw with that.
So I suspect there wouldn't be much betting interest.
There is a mechanism in
the Auger system for people
who owned the rep tokens who have to ultimately report on the truth.
There is a way for them to say this market is invalid.
Okay.
So one of the core tenets of Auger is,
you can't stop anyone from creating market.
Like for example, assassination markets have come up already which is obviously it's bad,
we don't want this.
You can't stop people from doing it.
So the way that the system is designed to accommodate
this is the rep holders can just say, "This is invalid."
In which case, even if people bet on it,
the system will not resolve and everyone will
just get their money back on whatever they put in.
That makes sense, I think that's a really interesting application.
I also wanted to ask you,
as reading a couple of the posts on multi coins like blog,
you had written something about Web 3.0.
Web 1.0 being this dial-up AILA Messenger,
Web 2.0 being the current state,
like our data is just out there.
I was wondering if you could talk about Web 3.0 and how a blockchain might
be used in like a newish version of the Web?
So as you say, Web 1.0 was like Mosaic,
Netscape, all that stuff.
Netscape.
The 90's basically of the internet.
It was clunky, it theoretically works, but not really.
Web 2 can started around '03,
'04 maybe, time frame.
We started getting consumer SAS,
online services that were pretty good.
Today we have super mature, sexy,
amazing, beautiful applications that can do all the range of things.
The big problem with the Web 2 model that we live in right now is that,
the companies provide it to these services control the data.
When you use Google,
when you use Facebook when you use Twitter, when you use whatever.
Snapchat, which by the way, they keep your pictures on their servers for awhile.
Like delete them after some number of months,
but it's not five minutes.
So all of these systems we all use every day now,
like these companies have all the control on all the power of all the stuff.
It's fundamentally all the data is like the consumer's data.
It's my health data, it's my searching,
it's my friends, it's my pictures.
It's not Facebook pictures, it's my pictures.
It's like anything you've ever put out there.
Literally correct. That's the current state of Web 2.
The Web 3 vision is really about empowering consumers to be self sovereign,
so that consumers can control it on own their own data,
but still be able to have these dynamic,
rich applications of things that consumers have come to expect of the internet.
So that's like the grand vision of Web 3.
This means self sovereign money,
self sovereign data, self sovereign identity,
self sovereign all of these things, privacy, online privacy.
So it's kind of division. Then on a technical basis,
we're just in the process of building out the early parts of
the technology stack to make all of this possible.
So just like right in the '90s,
we needed TCP/IP and then we needed HTTP and a whole host dependent.
Then we got HTML and we got JavaScript.
These all kind of basic building blocks coming together to make a browser thing work.
Then 2000s we had the LAMP stack,
which is old now decrepid web stack to build a web server.
Today, we've got this full range of AWS servers and Google Cloud Servers.
We now have this new serverless movement,
it's called Lambda, It's cool.
Anyways, the whole stack,
that's been maturing for a long time and people have an iterating and building on it.
So we're right now in the early phases of this Web 3 stack which is all about
putting the people at the end points in
control and not having a single thing in the middle that controls everything.
Right.
We're still in the early phases of building that infrastructure.
So when I talk about the web three stack,
what I'm really referring to is
the entire software stack from the core Internet protocol,
all the way up to the end-user experience,
enabling all of this to come to fruition.
I've also heard blockchain tech like compared to the dot-com bubble.
You have your Amazons, your Googles,
you also have cats.com,
and live journal or whatever.
As an investor, how do you look at all these options?
Things like [inaudible] or specific kind of coin,
so separate the winners from the losers.
Are there a few specific traits that you look for?
Or is it a bit of an educated guess?
It's all definitely educated guesses for sure.
Yeah.
The framework what we're looking at,
we have different frameworks we use.
So if we're looking at what we call layer one protocol.
So Bitcoin is a layer one protocol,
[inaudible] is layer protocol.
Really anything that has to solve consensus,
we considered a layer one protocol.
If we're looking at those, there's a certain number of things we look for.
So I talk about this and make my post called the Web 3 stack.
There's a whole bunch of teams that have come out
with new ideas for consensus algorithms.
That consensus is really like the base layer of the entire Web 3 stack.
It's really the foundation on top of which are almost everything else was being built.
Consensus is the process by which something is determined about transaction or not.
So the idea of determining is this transaction valid or not is a separate question.
From then, the next question is,
given there's all these people in the world who are
submitting transactions as you need to come to
some ordering of which transactions happen, first, second, third.
So consensus is really a more about coming to order,
given a set of valid transactions,
in what order they come into.
Okay.
Get network latency nodes around the world, etc.
Like chronological ordering.
Yes, correct. When we're looking at a layer one protocol,
for example, the question we're really asking ourselves is,
how is this going to be the theorem?
If you're going to claim to make a run at a theory and have us
new smart contract platform with like features X and Y, and Z or whatever.
Like X and Y, and Z,
you need to probably be pretty compelling.
A theorem has a large head start, has a lot of mine share it,
has a good note, there's a lot of people building up a theorem.
The Tallic and the Ethereum Foundation have done a really excellent job
of being relatively impartial as they think they can be.
Promoting an open ecosystem.
They're not stepping on people's toes.
They're not building things that other developers want to build on,
and they're just focusing on the core protocol.
Like their focus has enabled built this really strong community around them.
So if you're going to say, hey,
we've got these ideas that can perhaps be better than Ethereum,
they need to be really much better and they need to be
things that Ethereum is going to have too much baggage to be able to pull it off.
There are good ideas out there that Ethereum we'll get to in the next 12 months.
So if you're telling me, "Well, that's the basis for a new chain,
then that just some very interesting."
There are some things that Ethereum just cannot easily do.
Because it's already out there ,
people using it and so they have a lot of baggage right there,
just slower to move.
So we will look for like
really deep insights about things at Ethereum cannot fundamentally accomplish.
Then if that's in fact true,
then can it deliver something that's 10 or a 100 X better.
So that's at the base layer.
Then there's a next layer that we look at.
We call these in Web 3 stack post,
call them optional components of building in Web 3 stacks.
So for example, if you need to store just file somewhere.
You don't really want to store files in Ethereum blockchain,
so you probably want to store them in something like IPFS,
which is interplanetary file system.
If you want to do video streaming like Ethereum knows you're not
going to stream like transcript video and push video.
So there's, for example,
a group alive here that's building a de-centralized video trans-coding service.
There's another group called the graph,
which if you need to do high-performance queries on the blockchain,
we get Ethereum nodes,
gets imperative, for example,
really aren't designed to enable production scale,
numbers of queries on the core database.
So there's a group called the graph that's building
out a way to do decentralized queries at scale.
So there's all these kind of, I call the middleware components of things.
That if you're building some sort of end-user application,
you may want some of these pieces.
All those pieces of the stack are also currently being built out.
So when we evaluate those pieces of the stack,
we're really try to understand as, how big is the market?
Are people going to use this? What kind of adapt may or may not need this?
I go on from there.
Then the highest level of stack are basically we call DAPs or end-user applications.
These obviously, they have a UI. People clicked buttons on them and they do stuff.
That feels a lot more traditional venture investing when we're investing at that layer.
So it's like there's a variety of things out there and they're
all optimizing for these different use cases,
whether it's like speed or scalability.
That's actually interesting because I was thinking about
cryptocurrency and I was thinking about it as like money.
Like the value of the community is not to be underestimated.
Where if people are excited about something,
devoted to it and using it,
that can guarantee you something success.
Like, I spend my time working to get
money so I can do other things because I know other people value it.
But it is interesting to think about how there might
be similar apps in that they use blockchain,
but have optimized for different capabilities like
speed or decentralization that could be useful in multiple places.
It's really good to get your extra insight into this I think.
I was wondering if you have advice for people who
are [inaudible] to enter the space and learn more about blockchain.
I think if you're developer or really good place to get started,
I think ConsenSys, they have
a lot of great materials on learning how to develop for Ethereum.
Then, same for the other chain.
So things like EOS, things like Tezos,
all the the core team is building the primary chains have
pretty robust documentation for getting starting building there.
If you don't want to just jump straight in the building and you
just learn your way around the ecosystem,
there is a few really good resources online.
I think you can get a turn to, to just start to get a feel of what's going on.
So probably, my favorite publication is a weekly publication called Token Economy.
They published once a week every Sunday,
it's tokeneconomy.co, it's a website.
They published the week,
they summarized the news for the week.
They provide commentary on it and they highlight good insights from developers,
from entrepreneurs, from investors,
all over the ecosystem.
Really, really good weekly summary.
I look forward to it every single week.
Not my probably favorite like news source on a daily basis is called
trustnodes.com or.org called Trustnodes. It's excellent.
If you want something that feels more like TechCrunch for crypto, like CoinDesk,
does a good job of being TechCrunch or Crypto.
Then I curate a couple of Twitter lists.
So if you go to my Twitter profile and go to the list section,
I curate, I call it a VIP list,
that's about 60 people.
Then I curated just a more generalist, it's like 600 people.
So depending on what level of noise you want in your Twitter browsing experience.
Yeah.
I will say a lot of the dialogue and action happens on Twitter.
I do like Twitter. I think it's probably similar for the AI spaces,
like this thought leaders that you can get up-to-date news.
But I guess the trouble is if you're not on there all the time,
which you probably shouldn't be on Twitter all the time,
you're maybe going to miss something.
But I like that as a resource.
Are you finding these things like through word of mouth
or just creating things on your own?
I mean, I've been in the crypto space now for a little over two years personally,
and then professionally for about a year.
This is all just like,
I just read stuff and I click links and
those links go all places and write recommendations from friends.
This is all pretty like,
there's no hard science on this.
I've looked at lots of stuff and I have developed my curated information feed.
I did get started CoinDesk,
Trustnodes, and took an economy,
and then those lists on Twitter will get you kick-started,
and then from there you can create your own Twitter lists and go from there.
Yeah, I'd also be really miss if I didn't mention that Udacity is coming out with
a Blockchain of urban nanodegree just to follow this knowledge gap.
But of course, we encourage people using
as many resources as they can get their hands on.
I think part of why we're making this and asking about
these resources is we value this firsthand experience.
If you are wanting to be a developer,
can you actually code some JavaScript or whatever to
learn more about validation and signing or some details about cryptography?
I wonder with respect to the firsthand experience,
if you ever recommend that people buy Bitcoin or Ether and invest?
If you have the means, would you say, "Go,
have fun with this thing," or is it for serious players only? I guess is my question.
I think everyone should own some crypto.
I'm super biased.
I am not so favorite of this kind of everything I'm saying.
I drank the Kool-Aid a long time ago.
I think this stuff is going to change the world.
If that is correct,
then you will have a lot more money in
the future than you have now if you buy some Bitcoin and some Ether.
For passive investors, if you're like,
"Look, I'm not going to go deep into all this stuff,
but I want some exposure," then go to coinbase.com,
buy some Bitcoin, buy some Ether and let it sit.
You don't need to trade it. You don't need to check prices.
You don't need to read the news. Check in once a year.
That's fine. If you want to get more into it, that's great.
The rabbit hole never ends.
Yeah, I think that is what's exciting about it though.
I have heard that when asked about Bitcoin or Ethereum,
that you're on team Ethereum.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about your reasoning behind that,
or am I correct or no?
I definitely have a bias for Ethereum over Bitcoin.
I will say over the last quarter or so,
I've come around more to the Bitcoin view,
but still if you tell me to pick one today, I'll pick Ethereum.
My basic reasoning is that, a,
I got into crypto because I like building cool software.
I've been an engineer since I was a kid,
started a tech company right out of college. I like building stuff.
I like seeing other people build stuff.
The Bitcoin community is the antithesis of building things.
They really just like to yell at each other on Twitter.
They want to stay still.
Yes. The whole point of Bitcoin is that it does not change.
My inner build cool stuff per person doesn't care for that.
I have a natural affinity towards Ethereum for that purpose.
The other reason I think more practically is,
there's two fundamental competing hypotheses on,
how do you get this global digital reserve asset that's worth many trillions of dollars?
There's three fundamental hypotheses on this.
I've written about them in a blog on my personal website.
It's called Paths To Tens Of Trillions,
and I lay out these hypotheses.
One hypothesis is basically the store of value hypothesis.
It just says, "Look, guarantee there's a fixed supply,
guarantee that it's self sovereign,
guarantee that the system doesn't break," and that's about it.
As long as you have those checkboxes checked,
people will realize governments are evil
because they print money and they will therefore buy this thing
that governments cannot inflate and that will make it at the global store value.
That's one worldview that's pretty much the Bitcoin view of the world.
The next view of the world is, no,
if you're going to get people to value this thing as money,
they need to use it as money.
They need to use it for commerce.
This is the idea of the utility hypothesis.
Ethereum and really all of these smart contract platforms
are going to fall into this camp.
They're saying, "Look, you can do these traceless forms of
commerce and enable people to buy x and y and z."
If you're going to get this thing that be money,
people need to use it as money.
Those two views of the world,
although they have the same general end the state of it's the thing worth a lot of money,
the means by which they got there are very different.
So I tend to believe the latter more than the former.
Yeah. I think I've heard them compared to Bitcoin as the gold.
There's a limited amount of it and it's just is what it is.
Something like Ethereum being compared to money as a means of exchange,
which I actually think it's a little more Silicon Valley. It's a little more exciting.
Some things like you can build on top of it with, I think.
Also in some ways, it feels a little more familiar.
So with something that is relatively new and exciting,
there's a lot of misinformation floating around or very sensational headlines.
So I wanted to do
this myth-busting session where
I say something and maybe you can respond to it and tell me,
is it myth, is it fact,
or is it a mix of both?
The first one is that Blockchain is a fad, that it won't last.
That's laughable.
The reason being it's proven itself at this point. Would you say?
I think so.
One of my favorite lessons from history is
the intolerant minority usually wins, which is counter-intuitive.
Normally, you would just think the majority wins just in general, in an abstract sense,
whereas what's typically happening is that there is
a apathetic majority in most things. They don't care.
They're passive.
They're passive. They just don't care even if they all concur on whatever the issue is.
There's some intolerant minority that yells and screams and will
fight and whatever and they are the ones who pushed things forward.
This is true for all civil rights.
This is true for a 100 of examples in history of how this is played out.
So when I look at crypto today,
what I realize is you see is there's very intolerant minority where they're saying,
"No, governments are evil, stop printing money.
We want self sovereignty with control.
They want control of our own data.
We don't want these corporations to have our data."
They are the intolerant minority today,
and those are the die-hards in crypto.
They are not going away.
They are intolerant and they will stay intolerant.
Their web-free stack is being built out.
It's still hard to mentally reorient your mind around the implications of this,
but as this stack gets more mature,
as it becomes more usable,
I expect that people's eyes will open up and say,
"Holy cow, the world can be different."
My favorite practical, modern example of this is when I was a kid,
the two rules of being a kid were,
don't get in the car with strangers and don't talk to strangers.
Sorry, don't meet people on the Internet and don't get in a car with strangers.
It sounds familiar.
Today, I call people on the Internet and get in their car.
True. Correctly.
So my point is, in my lifetime,
[inaudible] the two cardinal rules of being a kid,
it's like I did this every day,
and I know lots of parents who send their kids in an Uber, all the time.
So there's just a lot of fundamental beliefs that can be reoriented.
It just takes a little bit of time to click.
Yeah. Like a passive majority that's a little skeptical,
but mostly it is just passive.
Then this passionate minority that will grow as these applications reveal themselves.
I think that is pretty true.
So the second myth slash,
perhaps fact, is that blockchain can't scale.
That it's too slow at doing transactions to be reaching a global scale.
So this is definitely a major challenge today.
It's the single largest technical challenge facing blockchains today.
Just about all of the smartest people in crypto
today are working feverishly on this problem.
I expect we will have viable solutions in the next few years.
Is there anything promising that comes to mind?
So there's six fundamental ways to scale a blockchain.
So one is you can have many smaller chains.
Two is you can have really big blocks.
Three is you can compress data on the chain.
Four is you can have [inaudible] layer 2,
like lightning work in Bitcoin or plasma in Ethereum are examples.
Five is charting, and six is [inaudible] improvements and consensus.
Those are really the only fundamental ways you can do it.
There are super smart people working on each of the six.
Although on an individual basis,
maybe you disagree with one,
or even multiple of those, ideologically,
which there are some ideological reasons to oppose some of those concepts.
As all six people make progress on all six of these things,
it's getting better, faster, at the same time,
you have this compounding effect that most people,
linearly, they're like "No,
it's not going to get you there."
But if you actually compound them all together you can get
some very compelling improvements at the end.
Yeah. That does make sense to me.
Third, last one, blockchain will revolutionize the world.
I think it's sensational but perhaps
it's an exaggeration or just something that time will tell.
I really hate the word revolutionize.
Yes. Perhaps that's it.
I don't think that the word revolutionize is actually a word, maybe it is.
If I see it in a pitch deck now, I stop reading.
That's fair.
So I've discounted it as no longer a word in the English language.
I think it's going to change the world,
both in terms of money and governments,
and as well as technology stacks [inaudible] people,
and self sovereignty, and data, and privacy.
I believe very strongly that those things will happen.
We're still super early,
but once you've seen the demo,
there's not even a sexy demo,
but once it clicks for you how the status quo works,
and how this works,
and you're like this is going to happen.
You can't keep this in a bottle forever.
Yeah. I also recoil from the idea of something being revolutionary.
I can almost imagine,
as someone who is almost at this passive majority level,
if tomorrow Amazon switched to using blockchain and they didn't tell me,
I probably would not even notice and it would have
changed how these transactions are working.
Well, that's the thing. Blockchain, you'll never see it.
By definition it's virtual.
You'll have the UI for all of your favorite apps,
will still be some pretty UI, whatever on your iPhone.
The back end will be different and it'll be subtle,
but the reason some fundamental things are the way they are,
will change to ultimately be better for consumers.
Yes. So I wanted to ask, as an investor,
if it's difficult investing in technology that is open source.
Like right now I can go on GitHub and look at the core of Bitcoin protocol and,
maybe, fork it and create a copy of my own and start my own cryptocurrency, or something.
So does that make it difficult to invest in this technology?
Are you looking at different aspects of how people use this?
It's actually a real big challenge of investing in crypto,
is that basically everything is open source.
That means competitive barriers to entry is very different.
Really the only mode in crypto is network effects.
If whatever the protocol is you're building cannot accrue network effects,
then it's going to be very hard for it to be meaningfully differentiated in the long run.
By network effects, this is a term that's thrown out there quite a bit.
It's a little bit misunderstood,
but the basic idea of network effects is as
an additional user uses the network or the service,
the value for existing users increases.
So I actually wrote a blog post back in May,
I think it's called On the Network Effects of Stores of Value,
explaining some of these core concepts about different kinds of network effects,
how to think about the strengths of
relative network effects and explore some of these concepts.
But yeah, when we invest an absolute key thing we look for is, if the thing works,
as new users use the thing does it get better for
existing users?We'll have an understanding of the nuances of how that will work.
That's interesting because I think about these earlier cryptocurrencies,
and maybe the reason why they're so popular is because they got
a head start on who is using them in the first place.
My last question is,
if there are people in your life who you're surprised are getting into crypto?
In my life, personally,
my mom owns some Bitcoin.
My mom is far closer to Luddite than technologists.
She's got some Bitcoin, she's got some Ether.
Who else in my personal life?
I have family in Iran,
and my family's Iranian.
About half of my family is in the US now,
and about half is still in Iran.
Actually, just in the last few weeks,
Trump reinstated sanctions on Iran,
the economy's tanked there.
People were expecting the sanctions to be removed eventually and they're back,
and so people are quite unhappy.
There's been a lot of protesters out in the street,
and a lot of my family there is trying to figure out how to get money out of the country.
So actually, it's very personal.
So I've got family that's using crypto-
It makes a lot of sense.
-to get money out.
I think those are all really interesting use cases,
and there is a little bit of a barrier of skepticism,
but sometimes it just takes one person that you
trust to suggest it to you to get you over that hump.
So thank you for joining us and spending some time with interesting conversation.
We're both on Twitter, so I was wondering if you wanted to shout
out your handle, or anything else.
Yeah. I'm a super colorful character on Twitter.
My Twitter handle is just my name,
so @kylesamani, K-Y-L-E S-A-M-A-N-I.
Okay. Thank you to everyone who joined us,
and we'll see you on the Internet.
Bye.